Let's learn about how we can plot signals in Python and visually explore our data.
We're going to be using the Matplotlib library,
which is a close analog to MATLAB's native plotting library.
For this demo, we're going to be using the NumPy and Matplotlib libraries.
This first line is called an IPython magic,
it basically tells Matplotlib what GUI backend we want to use.
I'm using an Apple computer,
so I'm using the OSX backend,
but if you're using something different you can use the Qt library
to do your plotting or you can use Tkinter as well.
So first, let's make our test signal which is a sum of
sinusoids at different amplitudes and frequencies,
multiplied by a decayed exponential function.
So let's see what it looks like by plotting it.
The first argument to this function is the x-axis or the timestamps,
and the second argument is our signal values.
We can see it show up on this figure,
and we have this toolbar down here for interacting with the plot.
So we can zoom in the interesting portions,
we can pan around and zoom out,
there's some basic features of interacting with plots.
However, if you're working in a Udacity workspace or in a virtual machine,
a new window won't open up for you.
In that case you can use the inline backend,
which puts the plots directly in the notebook.
This is useful if you want to keep
all your outputs together so you can share
notebooks between collaborators more easily as well.
But this plot isn't very interactive,
we don't have our toolbar down here,
so we can't really zoom in on anything or pan around.
We can fix this by using the mpld3 library.
After calling the enable notebook function,
our plot should now be interactive.
So we see the toolbar here and we can zoom around and explore our data hopefully.
So now that we know how to plot time series signals,
in the next video we'll look at planning specific events on top of our time series.